# 佛說無能勝幡王如來莊嚴陀羅尼經
## Sūtra of the Dhāraṇī of the Adornment of Aparājita-dhvaja-rāja Tathāgata, Spoken by the Buddha

Taishō Tripiṭaka No. 0943

Translated from the Chinese. Song dynasty, translated by Dānapāla (施護)

---

Thus have I heard:

At one time, the World-Honored One was in the Trāyastriṃśa Heaven, in the Hall of the Good Dharma within the palace of Indra. At that time, there suddenly appeared an asura king with his retinue, leading an army. Each one wore armor and carried weapons, and surrounded on all sides, they came to make war, attacking the palace of the Trāyastriṃśa Heaven. At that time, Indra and the hosts of devas donned jeweled armor, took up their weapons, and joined battle with them. The asura king's army was victorious, and the hosts of the Trāyastriṃśa Heaven were defeated, scattered in fear, and fled.

At that time, Indra concealed his celestial sovereign appearance, assumed the form of an ordinary person, and swiftly rushed to see the World-Honored One. Having arrived at the Buddha's place, he bowed his head at the Buddha's feet and addressed the Buddha: "World-Honored One! The asura king has now brought his armies to wage war against me. The hosts of the Trāyastriṃśa Heaven have been scattered and fled in terror. By what skillful means can you save me from this calamity?" At that time, the Buddha told Indra: "Listen carefully. I will teach it for you. There is a dhāraṇī called the Adornment of the Aparājita-dhvaja. In the past, when I was a bodhisattva, there was a Buddha named Aparājita-dhvaja-rāja Tathāgata. From that Buddha I heard this dhāraṇī. Since that time, I have also broadly taught this Dharma to others, obtaining great auspicious signs, and there has never been even a finger-snap's moment of fear." At that time, the Buddha again told Indra: "I will now teach you this Dhāraṇī of the Adornment of Aparājita-dhvaja:

"*Tadyathā jaya jaya vijaya vijaya jayavāhi saṃgari-praṃ-janani kiṃ sarva-śatrūṇāṃ jiṃbhaya jaṃbhaya saṃbhaya saṃbhaya mohaya mohaya bhagavati jayavāhi mātha mātha pramātha pramātha grasa grasa hasa hasa huṃ huṃ laṃ bo-dhari-triṇi tac-catur-vakta-klai-catur-nṛ-sthiti-catur-bhūṣi-aśi-muśala-tri-śūla vajra-dhāraṇi rakṣa rakṣa māṃ bhagavati hana hana daha daha paca paca mātha mātha pramātha pramātha oṃ ṭhiṭ-ṭhiṭ-ṭhiṭ hūṃja hūṃja sarva-sattra-dhvaja-gakeyū-rī-tiṣṭhā-tiṣṭhā triṭ-ṭa uluka-dhāraṇi tatrū-lokya-mātha-vidvūṃ-sya-parasai cala cala ciri ciri gala gala kiri kiri kuku-muca-ṭaya hasa-vidvūṃ-sya-para sattra-va-brahma-maya buddha-sattyaṃ dharma-sattyaṃ saṃgha-sattyaṃ mati-tokra-ma-sattya-vā-ni-nā-steyena mati-kramo-laṃ-drī kuṭa kuṭa kuciya kuciya rudalaṃ mānaya viṣṇū-mānaya candalaṃ sūrya-mānaya tatrū-lokya-dhi-patiṃ mānaya sarva-nirvūṃ-mānaya sarva-yakṣa-rakṣa-sā-garū-kinnara-mahūra-ga-mānaya vidvūṃ-śāya-mama sarva-śatru-vālaṃ-gālaṃ-gālaṃ-gā-pāya-laṃ-gā-pāya javāla javāla puṣpa-māri-śrī-tiri-tiri triṭṭa triṭṭa bhṛ-ku-ṭi-mukha-parasai-ni-kulu-caṃdana-garaṇi haha hehe huhu hihi rīṇi rīṇi rīṇā-mati-jiṃ-cu-dhvū-jiṃ-jī-buddhā-valū-kite rakṣa rakṣa mama bhagavato-valū-kite svāhā guṇa-rāja-prabhāse svāhā sūrja-rga-vimale svāhā sarva-graha-nakṣatra-dhāmi-garaṇa svāhā*"

The Buddha told Indra: "This Dhāraṇī of the Adornment of Aparājita-dhvaja constantly guards and protects me, both inwardly and outwardly. You should uphold this dhāraṇī. Place it in a pouch made of multicolored silk and tie it upon a banner-standard. Wherever you go, whether in battle with enemies, in quarrels, in fighting or killing, or in any dispute or verbal contest, you will be victorious in all cases. You should write out this dhāraṇī, place it in a pouch, and tie it about your neck to guard and protect you. I also, for the sake of the benevolent kings of future ages, will in all places provide protection. That Aparājita-dhvaja-rāja Tathāgata, manifesting in the form of a celestial woman, will appear before you, grant fearlessness, guard and protect you in victory, and cause the enemy armies to scatter in defeat. If a benevolent king is further able to write, disseminate, receive, uphold, read, and recite this dhāraṇī, he will constantly obtain purity and auspiciousness, and no external enemy will be able to prevail."

When the Buddha had finished teaching this sūtra, Indra and all the hosts of devas, having heard what the Buddha taught, were all greatly delighted, faithfully received it, and practiced accordingly. They bowed in reverence and withdrew.
