# 大寒林聖難拏陀羅尼經
## The Holy Naṇḍa Dhāraṇī Sūtra of the Great Cold Forest

Taishō Tripiṭaka No. 1392

Translated from the Chinese. Song dynasty, translated by Dharmadeva (法天).

---

Thus have I heard:

At one time the Bhagavat was in the city of Rājagṛha. At that time the Venerable Rāhula was wandering in the Cold Forest at the place called Aṅgikāyatana, among the great burial mounds. There, various deva-spirits, nāga-spirits, yakṣas, rākṣasas, kiṃnaras, garuḍas, and mahoragas, as well as all manner of humans and non-humans, hungry ghosts, bhūtas, piśācas, kumbhāṇḍas, and the like came to afflict him. There were also many kinds of crows, magpies, foxes, jackals, wolves, insects, and ants that caused him extreme disturbance.

At that time the Venerable Rāhula went to where the Buddha was. Upon arriving, he touched his head to the ground and bowed at the World-Honored One's feet, circumambulated three times, and then stood before the World-Honored One, weeping with tears streaming down his face.

Then the World-Honored One addressed Rāhula: "Why do you now stand before me weeping with tears?" Rāhula said: "It is so, World-Honored One! I was previously dwelling in the Cold Forest at the place called Aṅgikāyatana in the city of Rājagṛha, among the great burial mounds. There, various deva-spirits, nāga-spirits, yakṣas, rākṣasas, kiṃnaras, garuḍas, and mahoragas, as well as all manner of humans and non-humans, hungry ghosts, bhūtas, piśācas, kumbhāṇḍas, and the like all came to afflict me. There were also many kinds of crows, magpies, foxes, jackals, wolves, insects, and ants that caused me extreme disturbance."

Then the World-Honored One addressed the Venerable Rāhula: "Rāhula! Listen carefully now. There is a great vidyā, the secret Naṇḍa Dhāraṇī, for the protection of the assembly. For bhikṣus, bhikṣuṇīs, upāsakas, and upāsikās, it brings benefit and peace throughout the long night." He then spoke this dhāraṇī:

*Tadyathā: agaṃ-ga bhagavān ga saṃ-sara to-ga sma-vana-svabhaga su-rā eka-tara ara-vīra tara-vīra tara-tara-vīra kara-vīra kara-kara-vīra indra indra kaisa-ra haṃsa haṃsa kaisa-ra bhi-cma-la mahā-kica-vihiti kā-kala-ceka agudara-jaya-jayari kā caila aila-vitāri ci-ci hīri hīri samāti-vasu-māti curu-nāti curu-curu-nāti cura-nāni ku-nāni hari-ṣṭa-ki kari-ṣṭa-ki kari-ṣṭa-ki kyori gandhari caṇḍa-ri ma-taṃ-gi dharaṇi dharaṇi uṣṭra-pāri-ke caka-ri-ke vara-nāni ka-karlike lala-māti rakṣa-māti vara-kule māniyate utpāri-kara vile-tara vile-tara-tara vile kuru-vile kuru-kuru-vile curu-curu-vile mahā-vile gara-māti cara-māti rakṣa-māti sarva-ratha-sādhani parama-ratha-sādhani apratihate indru-rāja sumu-rāja vāru-rāja kuve-ru-rāja māna-svi-rāja vāsu-ke-rāja naṇḍa-gaṇi-rāja buddhasahasra-dhipati-rāja buddhabha-gavandha-ma-svāmi-rāja anutaru-lokānu-kaṃpa-kara rakṣa rakṣa māṃ ahiṃ-sa sarva-sattvānāṃ ca rakṣaṃ karu-tu pari-trāṇaṃ pari-grahāṃ pari-pāla-nuṃ śānti-yuṃ svasti-yā-yanuṃ naṇḍa-pari-hāraṃ śastra-pari-hāraṃ viṣānu-ṣānaṃ viṣā-nāśa-naṃ hima-mandana-dharaṇi mandana caku-ravandu jīva-tu-vandri ṣā-śe-danu paśa-yatu śarana-da-śedanu. Tadyathā: vala-vati cara-māti tala-māti lokṣa-māti rakṣa-māti huru-māti huru-huru puru-puru cara-cara śatu-run guru-guru-māti māti pūmi-caṇṇi-kārike ci aki-sala-bhini smānate hure-sture sthala-śi-gale jaya-sture jala-nāni curu-nāni va-gavandha-ni viru-haṇi suru-hite aṇale paṇḍale kara-le kiṃ-nāle keyu-le ketu-māti putena-game puta-māti taṃni-ye muṃ-gali-ye mahā-vāla ruhita-mure acāruṇi dhara-dhara jayarike jaya-kyoṃ haṇi curu-curu dhā-dhā puru-puru guru-guru guru-guru māti-māti mantu-māti dhū-dhā-ru-dha dha-le dha-le vida-le vimāti viṣkaṃ-bhani nāśani vi-nāśa-ni mandha-ni mokṣaṇi vi-mocani mo-hāni bhavani śudhani saṃ-śudhani vi-śudhani saṃ-keraṇi saṃ-kecirāni saṃ-cādani saṃ-cedani satu-ta-ru-māni māni hara-hara mandu-māti hiri-hiri kiri-kiri gara-le huru-huru bhiṃ-gale namo-stu buddhānāṃ bhagavantu svāhā.*

"Furthermore, Rāhula! A person who recites this great vidyā dhāraṇī should make offerings with incense and flowers, form the mudrā, and with focused mind recite it one hundred and eight times. They should then tie empowered cords upon their hands and around their neck. This will provide protection for a radius of one hundred yojanas. Humans and non-humans will all stay far away. One will not be burned by fire or swept away by water. Blades, weapons, poisons, malarial fevers, and pestilent diseases cannot cause harm. One will not die an untimely death. Vetāla-sickness and sorcerous spells will all be rendered harmless by reciting this mantra, and one will attain peace and happiness. If one is bound by another, one will be liberated. All calamities, disputes, quarrels, and conflicts will also be entirely eliminated.

"If any ghosts or spirits come to cause disturbance and do not withdraw, one need only recite this mantra with focused mind. Those ghosts and spirits will see the reciter as if they were the great yakṣa lord Vajrapāṇi himself, entirely of vajra, with fierce blazing flames of fire. The four great heavenly kings will each wield iron wheels and sharp swords to drive them away in flight, their heads splitting into seven pieces and their bodies torn asunder.

"If those ghosts and spirits return to their own abodes, their fellow beings will not allow them back into the assembly, nor will they be permitted to dwell in the great royal capital of Aṭakāvatī. Furthermore, Rāhula! If one recites and upholds this Naṇḍa great vidyā dhāraṇī with focused mind, one will be freed from danger posed by kings, bandits, water, fire, poisonous vapors, and blades and weapons. Those who travel through wildernesses, mountain forests, perilous passes, and dangerous roads will be entirely free from fear.

"Furthermore, Rāhula! This Naṇḍa great vidyā dhāraṇī has been spoken, is now spoken, and will be spoken by buddhas as numerous as ninety-one Ganges-sand-numbers. Those who have perfected supernatural powers and great supernatural powers, and the devas, nāgas, yakṣas, gandharvas, asuras, garuḍas, mahoragas, and all living beings surround and pay homage to it. Those sentient beings will be freed from all fears and will all attain peace and happiness."

At that time the Venerable Rāhula and the entire great assembly, having heard the World-Honored One's teaching, received it with single-minded faith, bowed to the Buddha, and withdrew.
